# depositoffer
A deposit product enabling purchase of assets at price of depositors choosing and generate a risk premium 

1. The problem

1.1 Low interest rate environment and more QE show costs of funds to be unsustainable for those depositors who have to rely on some cash or interest to survive. Even the very rich with assets require some form of cash to pay for the living expenses. While the rich could borrow against their deposits, the lesser may have to sell of assets like shares or be frugal or sized down.

2. The solution.

2.1 Save for increasing interest rate which is dependent on central bank's policies, there appears on the surface no other alternatives. The truth is that interest rates or the cost of money must depend on the use of the funds. For example, that is how the bank charges rates for their clients, say personal loans usually attracts the highest rate and collateral loans lower. This means the rate given by the central banks do not take into account other risk factors but the central banks are not open to all but only those banks with a primary license to deal in the money market operated by the Central bank (also known as bank of last resort). One solution which I advocated is for a "third rate" ie a rate that is influence based on supply and demand between individuals and or banks. Currently, individual banks decide how much they want to charge you for the use of the funds. This includes their admin costs and risk premium. In some cases, the Banks may even decide despite their "standard" rates they required some insurance as well. This is why 'comparison" websites are not that efficient as each one of us is different and each bank has different protocols. One novel way to resolve this is group borrowers together in a relation matrix and let them decide amongst themselves how much the borrowers would pay for borrowing in pooled funds (where the bank is one of the participants). Each party within the group knows or ought to know each other as they are in some form of commercial relationship say between subsidiaries of a group. The bank is merely a participant and therefore takes the same risk as the rest of the borrowers and since the risk premium is spread between all the members, the rates will be based on auction (supply and demand). This is to say there will be members who desperately needed the funds and those who may not and rather prefer a return on the funds lend (in the pool). This method reduces the roles of the banks to a participant instead of an intermediary. This also means less fees. This could easily be automated on a platform. For more understanding you may wish to consider my article here https://medium.com/@sabahlaw/democratizing-the-us-money-market-the-third-rate-1f2864fd870c


2.2 Another solution which is targeted at depositors can also be described here. Depositors currently have no say as to how their deposits will be used. The Bank could use the funds, assumed all the risk and pays a general rate to the depositors. The only exception is where the depositors have a huge amount of funds and this is where they can negotiate the rate. This is generally known as "deposit syndication" and there are brokers out there to assist in this where they combined the deposits of many and offer to the institutions. Be that as it may, banks do not generally offer such services to the general public. They have a walk in rate or special which is boldly advertised in branches or they have private bankers for those with USD 1 mio and above to negotiate the rates. Again the main issue here is that depositors need to check with each bank to get higher rates in effect competing to get best rates from the banks. In recent days, we also see "digital" banks also known as neo-banks, where they usually offer higher rates like around 2 % instead of 1% in the market. This is possible as their margins are very low, they have less expenses and almost relying on machines to cut costs. The fact that these neo-banks have to offer high rates shows they require deposits to finance their loans.

2.3 Another method is described in US Patent 7376612 which is where depositor can ask the interest rates be swapped for non-cash say for shares or even exchange their deposits for shares. I use "shares" to mean equity or profits or even commodities then cash. This means we are no longer measuring cost of money as interest in line with the Central Bank. This also means we are looking at risk of the assets being exchanged rather than cost of money. The question is how do we make this potential "exchange" valuable ? The only way we can do this is where we can find a match for the cash. For example, holders of share portfolio is interested in hedging against volatility of the markets. They could obviously go to the option exchanges which is a transparent market and with liquidity. However, this may not always be the best way to do this. There are times where time period may not be sufficient as option is based on weekly or monthly contracts up to 1.5 years. There may be depositors who are interested in purchasing shares without chasing the market (ie waiting for pull-backs) etc. What is required is a system where depositors could provide their wish-list for stocks/shares to purchase and the price they want to pay for this. On the other side we need portfolio or funds who are very stretch on shares looking for alternatives way to hedge by matching with said "wish-list". I envisage typical this will involve highly liquid shares or ETFs. The depositors earn a risk premium instead of interest and this continues until they purchase the shares at the agreed price. The banks basically use the deposits as a hedge instead of lending the funds out, is safer as the economy is uncertain. While the banks could use the deposits and lend this to speculators in the stock-market by charging high margin rates, this is a spot riskier than lending to businesses. The fact that interest is getting lower means the economy is not well, is clearly nothing to sneeze about. I admit the above scheme of using shares to swap for deposits to gain more "interest" may not be for every depositor. Instead of shares, one can ask for something else like gold units or even a holiday. This "open" request is built into my codes below where it is up to the depositors to provide information so the Bank can bid in reply. Ideally it should be so simple that depositors can mix and match their needs for example percentage of deposit to be hedged and so on. 

3. The codes available in part here is basically the front end which is capture in www.depositoffer.com/demo for the method described in US Patent 7376612. I will upload the open source codes from time to time when I finished cleaning them up.

4. My ask is for others to recode the User Interface so that it looks and feels suitable for this purposes, provide APIs so information can access by others etc. 



